all right folks welcome back this is
the ict mentorship free
youtube mentorship
for 2022.
i hope you're doing well i hope you had
a wonderful opportunity to study and
learn this week
and keeping up with the lessons
so we are looking at the e-mini s p
daily chart this is june delivery
contract month
for 2022
and i want to kind of like bring you
back up to speed to what we were looking
for over the last weeks or
month or so
remember back here we had that bearish
order block i outlined that as
an area to watch that and we're entering
a seasonal tendency so we're going to be
expecting lower prices we got lower
prices i showed you the relationship
between the dollar because it's risk off
so we have all the decline
taking place in the equities markets
and i said that we would be likely to
draw down into this
relative equal low
so i'm going to kind of like do things
in the trading view platform
so that way some of you folks that are
asking questions in the comment section
like how do i do this and where is this
on the platform
admittedly
most everything i know about trading
view my own students have taught me so
there's
gonna be a comment posted and pinned by
me
underneath this video
it'll be
trading view tips okay
if you have a tip that you want to share
with the viewers that are new to
tradingview
please by all means just make a post and
outline it as best you can i'm sure
they'll be well received i might even
learn something too
all right so
we're looking at
how the market did in fact trade down
into our relative equal lows so this was
the draw on liquidity okay
now
when i train my students and when new
students come to me the first thing they
want to know is how to pick the right
order block because they know it's one
of my concepts they want to know
you know which
is the entry candle
what's the entry point
where do i get in at okay
and that's the easiest thing
out of all the learning okay
once you understand what the market's
likely to do where it's going to draw to
okay where is it going
why should it get there
okay
if you do majority of your studying
and watching the tape okay reading the
tape which is kind of like what i'm
gonna outline and showcase in the live
streams in may
uh just before i get any further in this
conversation
the live streams will only be
in may i'm not trying to make a ongoing
thing of this
i don't want to
promise you you know an ongoing thing
but i am going to showcase some things
in live sessions that way you can see
how to train yourself to look for these
things okay i will not be giving you
trade recommendations okay i will not be
entering trades in front of you i'm
going to be outlining basically what you
saw me do
in this mentorship outlining where this
is going to go and it went there
i'm going to be doing that with intraday
charts
okay and i'm gonna point out certain
areas to study watch how price reacts
right here
and look for this type of thing to occur
here because i want you to understand
what it's doing
why is it likely to do what i'm gonna
outline okay
the best thing that can happen is for me
to get it wrong sometimes
okay so that way it'll disarm you
it'll feel like okay well you know if i
don't get it right
ict himself didn't get it right here or
there okay so
i'm going to do my best obviously to try
to educate you and show you what i think
is going to happen but invariably
there's
instances it's going to creep in it's
not going to be accurate okay i'm going
to read it wrong and it's fine
do not
take what i'm saying in my commentaries
and or my opinions
over the chart that's going to be live
don't take that as trade advice do not
take a trade and i'm going to say this
every single time i do the live stream
don't act on it because you don't know
what i'm doing
you don't know what i'm viewing you
don't know what i'm trying to teach you
none of that okay so you want to sit
still and just observe and take notes
they will be recorded
they will be on the youtube channel for
those individuals that are not going to
be able to be present
when will those live streams take place
there will be a new york session between
i think i'll start around eight o'clock
in the morning
so that way we can
get the chart set up i'll give you my
views overnight what took place and what
i think that cannot counter may present
and kind of like build the mindset i
will not be talking in the chat room
okay the little chat thing on the side
you know
you guys will be saying whatever you
want to say i don't care i'm not going
to be looking at that because it'll be a
distraction the agenda that i have for
that particular day it would be very
distracting for me to
to read comments and questions
and
because i know your question is
important to you all of you no matter
how simple it may be
i'll feel compelled to want to answer
everything that flashes across the
screen and it'll disrupt my
concentration so i won't be looking at
the chat okay
i'm not ignoring everybody
for the sake of being rude i'm just
ignoring everybody so i can stay on task
okay so
there's that
but we'll begin around eight o'clock in
the morning
and we'll close it
you know whenever i feel
the need to do so but i'll be willing to
go up to
10 30 11 o'clock okay which is a very
long long session i know
they may not all go that way i won't be
doing it every day either so it'll be a
hand-picked selected day in advance that
you'll know about
and i'll post it
on the community tab on my youtube
channel okay
all right with all that stuff out of the
way let's get back into the nitty gritty
here
so i outlined this area here in this low
and i said this would be the draw on
liquidity so
when you're on
trading view over here there's a little
segment where you can have
a choice of certain things
now you can do
this so it looks like this is your your
bullseye where the market's gonna draw
to you're aiming for that in other words
or you can use the little magnet icon i
teach with that analogy like up here
imagine an
you know a magnet of some kind
down here and price is going to be drawn
down to that level here
so this is where the liquidity was
and they tapped into it today
all right
you knew about it up here
you knew about the order block up here
you knew about the seasonal tendency on
that line
and we have
this really nice decline here
so i want to take you into the
marketplace
and strip this down a little bit
and give you some more details so we're
going to the hourly chart
this is why i do powerpoint slides it's
really easy to get to where i wanted to
be
all right so we had a run
here
yesterday just kept pumping higher
higher higher
just fell short of this high
and then so we had a decline and then
the normal pause and then gapped it down
then rallied it back up
so between this candle's low
and this candle's opening
right in here that's an imbalance
coupled with an actual gap
so i want you to take a look at that
okay
now
we have this candle here small little
piece of that one here
this one this one this one and this one
they go just above
that area here this is permissible price
action in other words this is something
you have to get used to
okay
look at the bodies of the candle
see how they're staying inside
of that imbalance
it reaches for liquidity and stops
on these wicks
but the bulk of the volume is being held
inside this imbalance
notice that
so now we have
the market release go to the downside
and then here is
nine o'clock in the morning
i want to go into 8 30 actually let's go
down to a
15-inch chart
so here's 930
that opening price
here
at 9 30 what's actually happening is the
equities are
opening up the stock market
starts trading that's when you hear the
bell ding ding you know sudden
everybody's clapping their hands on tv
whatever that's what's occurring here
it's opening
so it's running a short term
high
right here
and then
breaks lower
creates an imbalance here
so on the 15 minute time frame what do
we see
did it take a high out yes
did it break below low yes was it
displacement yes it was energetic did we
trade back up into it here yes so in
here you could be a seller
and get in sync with the run to try to
get positioned for if you are a swing
trader or short term trader this could
be your entry and an aim for that old
relative equal law which is that blue
line here remember the two equal lows on
the daily chart i drew a line on that's
what this is here okay and it ran down
into it today
at 8 30
right there we're using the opening
price
did price trade above it yes it's in a
premium
it's above an old high that makes it a
premium too
i saw i believe it was a young lady
and i apologize i don't recall and i
didn't make a note of your name so
please don't be offended but i know i
saw it where it was saying something to
the effect that
you don't understand
how it could be in a premium
because it's above an old high
any time the market trades above
an old high
that is a short-term premium
because it's going into liquidity
any time the market trades below
an old low
that's a discount
okay
now just like
the purposes of what people use
overbought oversold indicators
things can be overbought and still go
higher
things can be oversold or in a discount
and keep going lower okay see that's why
i'm suggesting that when people are
studying price they can't just assume
that an indicator is overbought so
therefore
it's a good sell or a shorting
opportunity it's not always
but if you understand the narrative
within market structure market structure
is not the answer
it helps you frame an idea but the idea
must be in alignment with the present
narrative narrative is why should the
market go where you think it's going to
go
on that particular day
based on the climate the economic
calendar events and the volatility
that's being offered for that particular
trading session or day
so these are all things that you're
going to need to study and i teach on
this youtube channel and i'll teach a
little bit more when we're doing a live
session because it'll be more practical
then so that way you're over my shoulder
you're looking at it just like i'm
looking at it and i'll give you my
internal dialogue and kind of like what
i'm thinking
that is the most salient at the moment
so that way your attention is on the
right things at the right time
but
power three
which is the
open
rally up or manipulation creating the
high
and then
the movement lower and then distribute
their shorts below
an area where there would be stops so
smart money would be selling short the
buy stops here
writing this out
and an
offloading
their shorts
to sell stops below those relative equal
lows
remember when we see those relative
equal lows on the daily chart
traders are going to look at that as a
breakout
there's lots of traders out there that
have long-term trend following systems
and models
and if it breaks below those areas they
want to be short so that's going to
flood the market with what
market orders to sell at the market
well that's a perfect counterpart to
smart money being short up here because
they want to buy it at a lower price
and while up here they're aiming down
here is it hard to believe that when we
were already outlining that last week
in the week before
no
we have visibility we have the ability
to forecast certain things that should
repeat
if the algorithm is in fact in control
and we understand what the algorithm is
doing
and i'm suggesting that my experience
should indicate that we have that
does it deliver here it is
okay so
you're taking the logic of certain
principles and concepts and blending
them with market structure we're looking
for lower prices it should reach for a
specific low but also how does the
present narrative
allow for engagement with the daily
range or power three
everything i've taught you
so it's the open
rally
smart money enters near the high today
above the opening
and they get out down here
at an important low
and the market closes near the level of
the day
let's go into a
five-minute chart
one
two relative equal highs you see that
now if you're looking at the lower time
frame charts let me get this off here
because it's no longer
useful
if you're looking at that like that
here's the opening price you know
there's what resting above that
buy side so buy stops or buy sell
liquidity is resting here
so it can run up
and just to the left of that also you
see these highs here they're real close
to one another too so for good measure
they might want to come up here and
clean that out
this is a little too much i think it's
too rich for the expectation to get to
that high
but in here is reasonable but here at
least
okay
mark punches up through yes it does take
those out
then it breaks down comes one more time
back above the opening price and then
gives up the ghost and aggressively runs
for the sell side below here
now for some of you that would be enough
getting short up here buying it back
below the lows and being done and
walking away
there's nothing wrong with that if
that's your model
but we're going to take a closer look
inside of this area here
and see what we see
all right let's drop down into i'm just
gonna go right to the one minute chart
just to save time
all right
so we have
in this area
where the market ran above those
relative equal highs
here they are here
the market runs up
then it breaks down right here
see that right there that's a swing low
breaks below it was it displacement yes
does it mark come back up into this
little area here yes is it about the
opening price yes
is that enough sure it is
you can be short there
you have to weather this one more run up
into your
entry and you may have a little bit of a
down
but your stop loss if you're entering in
this fair value got your stop has to be
above the very minimum
the candle that creates the
fair value gap that's here so your style
is going to be above that
for good measure you know conservative
up here
oh but ict that's a lot that's a big
stop
well look how volatile it is you want to
be knocked out of the trade prematurely
or are you just concerned about making
the maximum amount of money on your
trade
dismissing the level of risk
that's
what gamblers do
i'm not trying to teach gambling
so when you're practicing on your demo
account keep that in mind that way
you're not trying to overextend yourself
the sell side below these lows in here
after it hits the fairway you got here
and one more time into it
well the opening price it breaks lower
and aggressively runs below here so not
a bad little run there
let's go back up to a five minute chart
okay and we're gonna go look at the
afternoon session
here is 1 135 and i remember i stated at
around 1 30 that's when i like to go
back in now i've taken trades earlier
than that but i'd like to see 1 30.
after 1 30 the lunch hour
has been smoothed out and then there's
usually some kind of a
retracement higher when it's bearish or
retracement lower when it's bullish
and you're seeing that here
the imbalance
relative equal highs
it runs up into that right there that's
an area you can get short on
market delivers a run lower
here's another little fair value gap in
there
it runs up into that
that's a short aiming for what
that line here that's that relative
equal low
on the daily chart
so
today huge huge opportunity day lots of
points that could have been uh made
available
but i did something this morning
showing everyone kind of like what
reading the tape
examples will be like when i'm doing the
live session
i did some executions just to prove
visibility to prove i was expecting a
certain run
and
i believe i was on nasa yeah i was in
the nasdaq so
let's go over to nasdaq
okay
that's in here
so we're going to zoom in here on this
bit of business
all right and here is what i had in mind
when i was looking at the chart
woke up this morning
my wife is out of town
with my daughter
so i woke up and
just because you know creature habit
your spouse ain't next to you so i had
insomnia so i sat up and i was looking
at the charts and said well you know
what
i see
well let me ask you what you see before
i do it okay
what gave me the backdrop for all this
in here
which i'll explain in detail in a moment
but what gave me the realization that
this is likely to
turn here and go lower
studied the entire fractal that's being
shown okay
pause the video
some of you just refuse i'm never going
to do it i see steve stop asking me to
do it all right so
we had this high here
we ran above it
and then we had the market shift so buy
stops
taken
breakout artist taking in on the market
long
and then relative equal lows
broken
so we have a shift in market structure
on a five-minute chart
in a time when it's bearish we're
looking for those relative equal lows to
be tagged on the s p and this is not the
s p i understand that but the
expectation is we want to see these two
indices go down on the daily chart so
heaviness should be the
you know the
protocol going into our trading day
in here
we have what
displacement
below
these lows so there's a lot of energy
there so right above that what do we
have fair value got
oh there's one right here too
right what did i teach you
this is where you do your entry
but i t you didn't enter here right i
wasn't looking at the chart yet i'll get
to that
he's in my mind he can read my mind
this fair value got here
we expect that to stab up into it
so our stop has to at least be in a
position where it can weather that
so
what does that mean
that means that you have to either have
deep pockets and allow for your
stop-loss to be inside this
here
or
you use
the micros
which is fine um i don't want to do a
micro man i want to be in there 20 per
point
okay
but you have to have an account that
will allow for that if you don't have
that then trade the micro
but i don't want to do that okay
gamble
but not because i taught you to do that
so here is the
order flow inside of that fair value gap
here again a little bit of
extra runs above
into that fair but you got there i'll
put another rectangle so you can get a
visual representation of what i mean by
that i mean you can clearly see it
obviously but
i want you to just
see it by contrast
see this is the rules this is why i've
been teaching you okay
if there is only one fair value you got
then you just put your
entry there and you don't expect it to
go up into any deeper retracement but
because it has another one here
expect it to stab up into that now i
know some of you in here want to be an
ict junior and you want to be in there
on the highest candle when you're
selling you want to be on the lowest
camera when you're buying and i
understand
but this isn't always going to happen
so if you're really only trying to aim
for that you're going to miss moves and
if it moves like it did today
that's that's a heartbreaker
because it moved a lot
and if you weren't positioned in it
and you spent the rest of the day
kicking yourself without being greedy
about trying to get that instead of
where i've already taught you
you'll probably miss the other moves
that take place later in the afternoon
and you get nothing for the day
all right so anyway
so we had a shift in market structure we
move up into a fair value gap here
and we have a break lower
fair value gap here
relative equal lows now look real close
folks okay
relative equal lows
a high being taken here we break down
these two candles move right below here
that's the same thing as these two
candles here being broken with this move
here it's a fractal
this whole move here
is the same thing here
just smaller and it creates the same
thing the fair value gap here the market
trades up into it the body's kind of
exp you know respecting that little area
moves a little bit above it that's fine
but then
breaks aggressively lower
does it take out the low yet no
retraces up in now i have two
okay not one i have two
narratives in play this one here
where we have a shift in market
structure there
so this is a long term high
here we have another
break lower it would imbalance so it's
an enemy term high
this is a bigger one than that one right
so this is a long term high
intermediate term high by definition
they're both enemy and term highs
because they have imbalances
but this one is lower than this one and
this over here
is lower than that one so this is a
turning point making this by
the hierarchy of swing points and marker
structure this is a long term high
energy term intermediate term because of
the imbalance
but how they nest together for market
structure
long-term
immediate term
now when this is retracing up this is
going to be a short-term high
inside of a market structure that is
really predisposed to go lower because
we have long term and intermittent term
above me
this
should respect
the underlying order flow and go lower
and i'm looking for that lower price
that's below
here
there's cell stops resting below that
so as it retraces back up into this up
closed candle what is this up close
candle
pay a shorter block
that's not what you've been teaching
this michael on this model right
i didn't say that's what this was i'm
telling you how to read the tape okay
but i do teach order blocks on
the channel
so we're gonna go into
this
right here
so inside this shaded area this is what
i'm going to be executing in
not what that color i am
okay that's good enough
may not be your choice but it's mine now
all right so we're going to drop into a
one minute chart
every time i do this i always imagine
somebody that has a little bit better
understanding how to work with the
tradingview
platform
they probably have a whole lot easier
quicker way of getting to where i'm
trying to get to
sorry
all right so
we're inside of that blue shaded area
on the five-minute chart
i'm also inside of this
green candle here that's a bullish order
block
so what i'm doing is now i'm going to
calibrate
which just meant simply means i'm going
to go down and
with a top down analysis approach refine
that order block that was on a five
minute down to this one
so the market retreats back up into
here
into that order block and i'm i'm trying
to aim once it hits the midpoint of it
i want to get in around that time
okay so i'm entering there on that
candle and then i'm holding in all this
and it drops back down
now some of you might look at this and
say oh but this is that order block fair
value gap here
and
what happens if it rallies well it does
a little bit
but what's it subordinate to
all the things i outlined over here and
on the five minute chart over here with
a higher
swing high so the market structure is
bearish i'm not looking at this setup
this is why i'm telling you
i tell this all the time okay is
me teaching my order block theory me
teaching my fair value got concept
is it going to become
ineffective
no
because
number one it takes a lot of discipline
you have to be absolutely organized you
have to know what you're doing
and that's why a lot of people just
teach it from hindsight because they
can't really they can't really do it
so you can sound real smart
you can sound real educated and in you
know institutional quote unquote
but if they can't do it it's useless
so if
i'm showing you these things and i'm
telling you also look around majority of
the people that parrot what i teach that
means they're mimicking by saying what
is i already said like an echo but
they're really not doing it they're not
doing it like i'm able to do with it
that should be your comfort
that
people by far and large humans are lazy
creatures okay they're lazy
and they're not going to be
predominantly
rule-based
disciplined
responsible
they're gonna be lazy and they're not
gonna do what's supposed to be done
so
it won't change anything
okay it won't make these things
inferior it won't change their
superiority it will not make them
ineffective
they will remain constant
now the algorithm
i don't care how many people learn from
this youtube channel okay i don't care
how many people rip me off and try to
rebrand and change the name of
everything i've taught
all of that saturation will not change
because
what i just said
the algorithm isn't going to change
there's new suckers coming in all the
time
pt barnum said it really really
accurately
there's a sucker born every second
so they're you're never going to run out
of liquidity
somebody's born somebody gets old enough
to start speculating and trading
boom they're in the marketplace and that
liquidity will just add to
the liquidity that will be on the other
side of your tree
so there's no reason for you to be
worrying about whether or not this is
going to be in effect i've been teaching
this for a long time okay privately
and
listen
if i honestly believed in my heart of
hearts that this would fail
and stop working if i taught it i would
not teach it
i wouldn't i would have never even
mentioned it
and i'm being honest
so
take heart there's no reason for you to
be upset about or worried or concerned
it will remain as long as those markets
are
trading
these elements will be in these markets
there it is
all right so
the market rallies up it's stats above
the order block here but it's just the
wick see that the bulk of the volume and
the bodies of the candles are inside
that order block
then the market does what it breaks
and shows displacement here
remember what i said about this pattern
here
relative equal lows it breaks down and
it goes back to a fair value got
here it is again relative equal lows
displacement
fair value got what does it do go right
back up into what the fair value got end
and
look closely
at the bottom of the bearish shoulder
block
see that
bam hits it
you watch me looking at the chart
it's there and then i'm entering on that
candle i'm not entering it because i
wasn't really looking at the screen it's
a second when i was
i was
holding the phone this morning but i
wasn't looking at it here because this
is a one-minute chart and i was doing
something else and when i looked back at
the screen i seen it went up there and
hit it and after it filled it then i put
my
market over to go in and sell two i sold
three contracts here
i sold two contracts here
and then i entered again here
after it did what
retraded back up into this bearish order
block here so it moved down
came back up in
and i'm selling short here
there
okay
what's the low on that candle
right here
look at this figure right
there so 13 334 and three quarters
and my entry as it ran up into it on
this candle
the entry was thirteen thousand three
thirty five
so it was only a quarter of a point
above into that candle that was my entry
it had a little bit of heat here
so on that entry it was one contract
here so notice what i'm doing
i'm entering at the largest portion of
the setup or you know the framework for
the trade i'm going in with my maximum
position size
first three contracts
there
then selling two
here
and then i'm adding the last one here
at logical precise areas it's not
randomness it's not willy-nilly it's
this not flipping a coin it's not
guessing there's logic here okay
so
when the market has this heat on it here
the highest
value that candle goes to is
thirteen thousand three hundred and
thirty nine and a half so four and a
half
handles that's the heat i took on
that there but only on one contract
okay
because i have two contracts that i'm
short from back here
and i have three contracts short from
over here
so i have all this built in equity with
five contracts so the one contract here
that only has four and a half
points of heat on it or draw down it's
insignificant i don't even worry about
i'm not thinking about it and that's why
i
when i pyramid and i build in large
positions i'm starting with my biggest
position first and then i'm going
smaller and smaller until i can't do any
smaller
i don't ever do
the final one contract and do one more
and one more and one more i don't do
that that's i don't need to do that so
once i had that position established
then i submitted to the idea
of it going down to that level that i
drew out on the i forgot what time frame
was now but we'll draw back out in a
second but here is the exit here i
bought all six back
at 13285 even
i want to be just above the level
because
it might do these little shallow runs
and it might not give me my fill
it does a little bit of that in here
and then finally
digs a little bit deeper
i just thought i had to wait a little
bit longer to get the fill but it
happened right there and i posted on the
community tab when it happened boom and
showed you the little screenshot there
it is
now
that's reading the tape that is reading
the market that's
getting
familiar with
order flow
and for those of you that are students
of mine for a longer time than just
recently you recognize this
as a market maker cell model
so i was selling in an area where
distribution would take place
so all this stuff is there it's logic
i'm going to say this point
because i know there's people out there
going through my trade statements
and you're looking for
precision
uh there's a lot of things that i'm
doing in that state in those statements
that have nothing to do with trying to
be precise you guys wanted to see an
account go up i i provided that i also
provided a way for my students they were
asking me that i'm obligated to
to show them where if they went into a
period of drawdown how they fix it and
also had lots of questions like and i
did it this morning with let me see
where was the entry yet the second one
where i did two contracts right there
okay
when i did that one
it was after i did
the
or was it let me go back and
well does that make a difference the one
where i had the fair value gap i said i
didn't see it when it was forming and
filling it in
after it filled it it was still close to
it so it was a close proximity entry
a lot of the trades in that td
ameritrade account i'm using close
proximity entries and i'm also
using things that you don't know about
okay
i'm also
proving to some of my students where if
they got into a marketplace and they
take a trade
and
they don't get stopped out but they sit
through draw down how the weather that
you are not privy to the conversations
i'm having with these students so don't
assume that
you're looking at those statements
thinking oh this is this is all he's got
that's not all i got i'm actually
doing something else i hear somebody out
there talking saying they can do things
and i can't trade and i'm baiting them
i want them to step out but they won't
okay
i want them to think that that's all i
could do and even then they wouldn't
butts because he knows i can do better
than that this is this
is not even the best there's other
things you can do with my concepts right
from this youtube channel that's more
precise than this
i know it sounds hard to believe but it
is what it is
i don't want those statements that i was
sharing
because like everything else of mine
people take my stuff remove my name
rebrand it and they say you know this is
my stuff this is my creation this is
whatever and they sell and they scam
if i give statements
that have real time and sales with live
account
and i'm producing like you see here
is it hard to imagine someone taking
that and showing it to people and saying
that's their results and scamming them
think about it folks
everything i do there's a rhyming reason
for it i'm not
reacting to someone else's
negative discord
so today this is the last bit of
business here
and we're done
so i did all this overnight going into
a pre-new york session
then we had all this back and forth
they pumped it up over
the overnight high here
and then we go back into that discussion
we had earlier
so they ran the high here
with this run up
and at 9 30 that's when we expect that
volatility to come in and that's right
here okay so a little bit of whipsaw in
here boom rallies
in my live trading account
i took a long in here and i got out at
uh i think it was
13 409
i wanted 13 4
but i was a little apprehensive thinking
that they may not stab through it they
were getting real close to it and it's
hung around
and i got out just a little bit
prematurely and that was it and i didn't
take anything until later on the
afternoon so a small little scalp in
here
made about 740 bucks i think it was and
uh
that was it my attention diverted
because
i'm mr mom right now not my wife's not
with me and the two children i have that
live with us still
i'm
in charge of homeschooling them still
and running this business and i have two
boxers that are
highly demanding of my time and i know
some of you are saying get to the point
get your point the point is i'm a real
person okay so i'm not able to be in
every single move because i'm doing
other things and i have a life i know it
seems like i probably don't but i really
do and as introverted as it is and is as
simple as it is
i love my life and i like doing the
things i like doing in my life but the
markets are not everything in my life
but hopefully you got something out of
this and you can see how we did again
uh draw lower on nasdaq
and
i think that will be it for
this one i'm going to go back to e-minis
to p
and you can see your relationship
there
so both of them moving in concert both
of them moving
in
tandem but look closer okay this is why
i went back to the e-mini s p why'd you
do that ict
do you see
that
look at the high here at uh
two o'clock in the morning 2 30 in the
morning
today
friday april 29th 2022.
the rally here after
8 30
it creates the high but it's lower than
the high it took 2 30 overnight
i'll go back
to nasdaq
see that
and we have a higher run
on nasdaq
so this is what i teach is smt okay
it's showing
it's showing a willingness
to correct the correlation
between
like markets
these are closely correlated
assets the s p 500 stocks composite
and in nasdaq 100 stocks composite
they generally move together in tandem
not all the time
so if we're bearish and we're expecting
lower prices
and we see this
but the s p doesn't do it
that's showing you that this is a stop
run
and it shows that s p
is
really weak
so this gives you confirmation
without using an indicator okay without
having anything on the chart
it shows you
oh well let me just do it here when you
have the nas back up like this you can
do a comparing contrast by hitting this
little tab here
and we're going to add this e-mini s p
new pane
so it plots it below and then if you're
comparing highs you want to go over here
good little gear
price source you want to change that to
high
and you can see
to high
high
higher here
lower there so it looks like
it looks like
a divergence you see that
with an indicator but it's not an
indicator it's price
so i use intermarket relationships and
correlation
and correlation used properly there's a
lot of people that are talking about
correlation they have no idea what
they're talking about but if you look at
the idea of this relationship here
it gives you like an x-ray view of real
accumulation and distribution
this is distribution
because it doesn't see the same rally
higher that the nasdaq did okay
there was two other things on my agenda
here i mentioned
to one of the young ladies i would show
the fib
this is nothing else so you guys are all
welcome to turn the video off because
this is not going to be teaching really
anything it's for those individuals that
just want to calibrate their
fibonacci and also
some of the little
points that i add
to the chart and i'll show you how that
means here
price note
had someone asked me how do i put those
little annotations on
um just anchor to the high you want drag
it over if you hold down the shift
button it'll make it level
you can also do that with your trend
lines
so if you want to add here if you start
dragging it if you put the shift button
it'll automatically toggle it and keep
it straight
and so many of my students were so
helpful because it used to drive me
crazy
so anyway
i know i told you i warned you folks
it's not going to be
arm burners it's simple stuff for people
that are new all right um the last bit
of business is the fibonacci okay so
i'm going to anchor your fib
to two price points
me get this off here
all right so
once you have it on your chart
highlight it and then go over to the
little gear
and go to style
and style these are the settings okay
all you do is go in click the little box
here type in the numbers you see just
like i have here
now if you want to see projections on
how far down
or up the moose
will likely go
this is for equilibrium so if you want
to see discount the premium that's what
the 0.5 level is it's 50
and you can see
by having this on here it starts doing
standard deviations
okay
and if you want to calibrate
it to the daily range
here
it'll give you a pretty good idea of
where
your low should form now this was a
little bit excited because it went below
an important low
but that's enough for government work
if you want to show
optimal trade entry levels
and you're pulling the fill up
i'm just taking this off so that way
your attention is right on the levels
that make up optimal trade trade entry
rather
the 62 and the 79
okay and you can change these
make them
a different
color to stand out
i don't like to do that but you can see
it here
so if we were looking at it like this
here's the optimal trade entry levels
and it trades up into it here
let me zoom in
can you zoom in itt
i young like you are
all right so here's the high to the low
optimal trade entry and trades up into
it here and into the fair value got bam
that's what makes it optimal
so there's your entry here and you can
start going back in
and
we can do
the projections here
again
go into it now
move this out of the way
do one standard deviation
two standard deviation
one half standard deviation
and i think that's enough for this one
so the range from the high and the low
you can get that for your
discount the premium but for optimal
trade entry
i like to use the bodies
lowest open or close
in the swings and you can see how nice
that gets right up almost into the 79
percent tracing let me see that i'm
going to take this sphere there you go
line off you can see how yeah it cleans
it up
are you saying what the book say
is you don't know how to use a fibonacci
you have any idea how many people have
said that over the years they actually
made videos about me on youtube saying
that stuff
look at this i don't understand what
he's doing
it's the bulk of the volume
i'm using the lowest opening on this
candle here inside this swing
and inside this swing i'm using the
highest open or close and that's what's
being plotted on optimal trade entries
here i look at this as
stop running just like this is
i want to get to the heart of the matter
okay i'm getting to the point
this is extra for the people that didn't
want to stay
so
the optimal trade entry level here now
if we start looking at the projections
down here we have one standard deviation
down here
project up over here
boom
see that
hits it and then we have a nice
retracement up
so this is a good area to take profits
here and it's also below the low so how
far can i go below this low ict well
there's a standard deviation right there
and it does so handsomely then we have a
nice little retracement then it gets
wild right before the opening okay but
that's the things i promised it would be
at the end of this video that was
supposed to be on thursday and i
appreciate you guys being
you know patient not going all crazy in
pitchfork and
you know
torches you said you were gonna do a
video on thursday
real life kicked in folks all right and
i think that my friends is going to be
it and i will touch base with you lord
willing on
tuesday of next week
until i'll talk to you then enjoy
weekend and be safe